# Fall 2023: PH 1975 Intro to Data Science Capstone Project

This is the code collaboration page for the capstone group project component of Intro to Data Science (PH1975) at UTHealth.

## Group Members
Ordered alphabetically by last name.

- []()
- []()
- []()
- []()

## Additional Resources
- [BioPython Documentation](https://biopython.org/)
- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Anaconda](https://anaconda.org/)
- Regular Expression Resources:
    - [Regex101](https://regex101.com/)
    - [RegExr](https://regexr.com/)

## Repository Organization

### /data
Contains data files

### /env_parameters
Contains files detailing the code environment parameters (i.e., dependencies, versions, etc.)

### /python
Contains any and all written python scripts, such as helper functions, if present

### /jupyter
Contains any and all Jupyter notebooks

### /docs
All documents that are not code or data files. This would include the original assignment instruction files, codebooks, and written reports, but excludes this README file or Jupyter Notebooks.

### /img
Any image files, including those generated by code.

## Style Guide

### Code
The general practices outlined in [Python's PEP8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0020/), especially [PEP20's Zen of Python](https://peps.python.org/pep-0020/), are ideal for collaboration and transparent review of code. A few points we've specifically highlighted:

- Everyone should be utilizing the exact same versions when it comes to Python, packages, etc. Anaconda and PIP files are beneficial to ensuring all cooperative code functions in the same environment.
- Lines of code should not extend past 80 characters for legibility
- Whitespace may aid with legibility but should be used conservatively, such as a single blank line between two different operations in a code chunk
- Code should contain descriptive comments
    - Someone should be able to look at the code and have an understanding of what it does and why
    - Code chunks that are data checks should have a top-line comment of "DATA CHECK:" followed by a description of what exactly it is checking for
- Code chunks should only have one output that is printed/displayed.
    - This is for legibility
    - Data Checks are the typical exception
- Variables
    - Descriptive names where possible
    - Use snake case (i.e. "variable_example") rather than camel case (i.e., "variableExample")
    - Avoid special characters and hyphens
    - Variable names should start with a letter (a-z), not a number or special character
    - Underscores are prefered over periods to separate words in variable names
- Files:
    - [Quarto documents (.QMD extension)](https://quarto.org/docs/computations/r.html) and [RNotebooks (.RMD extension)](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/notebook.html) are prefered, and both are compatible with [RStudio](https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/).
    - Functions should be separated into an R script and imported to the working document using `source(path)`
    - Pathing should be assisted with the [here() package](https://here.r-lib.org/) for R.
- File names:
    - Should be short and descriptive 
        - (i.e., "data_cleaning")
    - Sequential files should have a descriptive prefix, a two digit number, and a descriptive suffix. This ensures they are descriptive and fit in the proper order with a simple sort. 
        -  (i.e. "data_cleaning_01_nhanes_complaince")
    - Avoid special characters (except underscores and hyphens) and spaces
    - Do not make multiple versions of a file! This is what git version control is for! 

### Documents

- File names:
    - Should be short and descriptive
    - Should be in Title Case (i.e. "Example File")
    - Avoid special characters
    - Ensure extension is present (MAC systems sometimes cut off the extension)
- Do not make multiple versions of a file, unless otherwise agreed to work separately first before combining! This is what version control (git or GoogleDrive) is for!

### Images

- .PNG format is prefered, then .JPG
- File names:
    - Should be short and descriptive 
        - (i.e., "xaxisvar_yaxisvar_scatterplot", "var_histogram")
    - Sequential files should have a descriptive prefix, a two digit number, and a descriptive suffix. This ensures they are descriptive and fit in the proper order with a simple sort. 
        -  (i.e. "xaxisvar_yaxis_var_scatterplot_01_all", "xaxisvar_yaxis_var_scatterplot_02_outliers_excluded")
    - Avoid special characters (except underscores and hyphens) and spaces
    - Do not make multiple versions of a file! This is what git version control is for! 
